Hi will come back in this video we're going to look out the for loop.
So in the last video we created the list we accessed the length of the list and also each of the elements
.
However if we want to access the first element we need to type of numbers 0.
We want to access the second element we need to type numbers 1 and so on and so on.
So if we wanted to print each of those numbers we would have to say print numbers 0 and then print numbers
1 and then print numbers 2.
And you're getting bored and so am I.
So there is a faster way to do it.
There is a much better way to do it which is to iterate or navigate through each of the elements of
this list and then you can do something with each of those elements.
The way to do that is with something called the for loop.
So we use the keyword for and we say for each of the elements in the list number in numbers in this
case.
So what this does is it says for the first number I'm going to assign its value to the variable number
and then once I'm done with that one I'm going to move onto the next which is 1 and I'm going to assign
one to number and then I'm going to move on to to an assigned to two number and then I'm going to move
on to three and three to number.
So this variable number is going to contain 0 then 1 then 2 then 3 and so up to nine.
And every time it changes value we can do something with that number.
So now we press enter and we can see a print number and then we pressed enter twice.
And notice how now the output comes out which is fantastic.
So knowing what you know already about Python right.
Another for loop that would not print out every number but rather print out every number to the power
of two.
We looked at this in a very first video I believe.
So the solution to this problem is exactly the same as above for number in numbers and numbers.
And then we're going to print number times times two but times times that two times symbol multiply
something to the power of.
So we press enter twice and now we get our new list with every number to the power of two.
However do remember if we play numbers that the list itself is unchanged.
The only thing we've done is printed out the number to the power of two but we've not changed the actual
list.
OK.
In the next video we're going to be looking at boolean expressions which is a great way to make decisions
in our programs.
So actually in the next video